# jgs-21-geog5990-portfolio
This repository is a portfolio for the python code I have created during the University of Leeds' Programming for Geographical Information Analysis module as part of my GIS MSc.

The source code in this repository creates an agent-based model which:
- builds agents in a space;
- gets the agents to interact with each other;
- reads in environmental data;
- gets the agents to interact with the environment;
- randomizes the order of agent actions (to reduce model artifacts);
- displays the model as an animation;
- is contained within a GUI;
- is initialised with data from the web.

### **REPOSITORY CONTENTS:**
- model.py (found in the source_code directory) - this file is the main model containing the code for the agent-based model.
- agentframework.py (found in the source_code directory) - this file is a module containing the agents attributes and behaviours which is imported into the main model.py.
- in.txt (found in the source_code directory) - this text file is the environmental raster data for the main model.py.
- model_doc.html (found in the documentation directory) - this html file was generated by PyDoc to produce documentation for the main model.py.
- agentframework_doc.html (found in the documentation directory) - this html file was generated by PyDoc to produce documentation for the agentframework.py.

### **HOW TO RUN:**
- The model.py can be run the command line and needs four argument values, for example, at the command line: _**python model.py 10 10 100 20**_
- The model.py can also be run in spyder whereby the command line options need to be set in the configuration per file prior to running (run --> configuration per file
--> set command line options) (alternatively, Ctrl+F6 --> set command line options --> e.g., 10 10 100 20)
- The four arguments to be set at the command line are:
    - num_of_agents (this is an integer value to set the number of agents)
    - num_of_steps (this is an integer value to set the number of steps for the model)
    - num_of_iterations (this is an integer value to set the number of iterations for the model)
    - neighbourhood (this is an integer value to set the neighbourhood for the model)
    
- Note: the parameter variables have been left in the code commented out if one wants to set the values in the script instead of at the command line.

### Additional Information:
What to expect when the programme is run:
- After the parameters have been set at the command line, a pop-up window containing a GUI will appear. 'Model' should be selected from the menu bar, then 
'run model' should then be selected from the drop-down menu to run the code to produce the model.
- A figure will appear showing an environment with agents moving around the environment and eating the environment.


Testing:
- Print statements have been used throughout the code to ensure the code is performing in the intended way.


Further development:
- For further development of the model, the agents could be given more behaviours to enhance their interaction with their environment.
